the UN a chief Martin Griffith is right
now briefing the UN Security Council via
video link let's have a listen but it
also now deprives Gaza of a facility
that cared for more than 45,000 patients
a year before the current
hostilities so I am compelled to
reiterate and this will not surprise
anybody as everyone else has done on
many occasions in this Council
that under International humanitarian
law there are simple
requirements there are simple rules of
War which are applied to all of us
whatever the provocation and God knows
there has been
provocation parties to arm conflict must
protect
civilians and civilian objects take
constant care to spare them from any
attack we have discussed this in almost
every other conflict in this chamber
around the world this one is no
different international law affords
specific protection to medical personnel
and Facilities to ensure the wounded and
sick receive the medical care they need
it was no
coincidence that one of the first
humanitarian leaders on the
scene after those events of the 7th of
October was our dear friend and leader
Dr Tedros of
wh it's
imperative that the wounded and sick
receive the medical care they
need it is
imperative that the parties respect
their
obligations under the inter under
International humanitarian law and it is
our Collective responsibility we are all
involved in this we're not
Observers we are all involved in using
all our influence to ensure that this is
the
case this tragedy is
characteristic of the crushing impact
this conflict has had on
civilians and as Tor has been pointing
out and Lana earlier the catastrophic
consequences it will have if it
continues to escalate as we fear
in just 11 days since that storming of
Israel by Palestinian armed groups on
7th of October the death toll as has
been mentioned has already exceeded that
of the 2014
hostilities which lasted more than seven
weeks the pace of death of suffering of
destruction of breaches of international
law cannot be
exaggerated in Gaza more than 3,000
people have been killed more than 12 a
half thousand
injured hundreds are unaccounted for
under the rubble and quite frankly we do
not know how many have moved from the
north to the South to get out of Harm's
Way the death toll
also we all know this well includes
humanitarians I want to pay
tribute to the
15 UNR staff and Red Cross and rent
present Personnel that I've been meeting
these
days families of those who have
fallen we estimate that may be up to a
million people have fled their homes to
other parts of Gaza but we don't really
know uh many have done so in response
indeed to Israel announcement that
civilians should leave Northern Gaza for
safety but there is simply nowhere to go
for civilians to escape the destruction
and privation both of which grow by the
hour as missiles continue to fly and
essential supplies including F fuel food
medical items water run
low due to the scarcity of water
anra in some locations and I want to pay
a special tribute to anra but the way in
which has provided a buffer against
suffering in these terrible
times and in anra in some
locations is being forced to ration down
to
providing one liter of water per person
per
day bear in mind that the minimum by
International standards should be 15
lers and they're getting one and they're
the lucky
ones people have been increasingly
forced to consume from unsafe sources
we're hearing many many more reports of
that through anra and other agencies
placing the population at risk of course
of the outbreak of waterborne
diseases and whether civilians move or
stay and that must be their decision
whether to move or stay whether to move
again or stay where they have moved
to whether they move or stay they must
be
protected they must not be attacked in
places of Civilian infrastructures they
must be protected in places of
deconfliction and they must have access
to the essentials of humanitarian
assistance to survive which are
available and in which we have all spent
many many detailed hours in detailed
negotiations with the parties and I'm
grateful to them to all of them for the
commitment that they have shown to these
negotiations it means that the UN and
the humanitarian partners and I
specifically refer to the great
leadership
shown and I met their leaders today of
the Egyptian red cresant and the
Palestinian red cresant must be able to
relief
deliver excuse me to deliver relief to
civilians in need throughout Gaza
without impediment in places of their
choice in places where they consider
safe themselves to be safe and where we
can seek to ensure that
safety we have humanitarian supplies
we have medical teams anra has a staff
of
14,000 in Gaza still bravely working
under these conditions the other
agencies do the red crants of course
have many many many volunteers and they
are all ready to assist the people most
in need I'm very grateful to many member
states for providing very quickly
emergency funding for available for the
immediate relief in Gaza including from
the central emergency response fund that
my office
runs and the occupied territories
humanitarian fund thank you thank you to
all of you who stepped up so
quickly what we don't have however we
have a lot but what we don't have and
it's the killer what we desperately need
is immediate safe human Arian access
across all of Gaza and that is the
burden of our discussions with key
parties we urgently need a mechanism
agreed by all relevant
parties to allow for the regular
provision of emergency needs throughout
Gaza to get the level of distribution of
assistance up to what it was before
these terrible weeks of 100 trucks a day
providing assistance throughout Gaza to
people in need we need to get back to
that level of
ambition for that we need additional
funding agencies like onra world food
program and of course for the red crants
in their leadership role and without new
funding unra
already painfully
woefully lacking in funds will not
have the ability to continue to deliver
crosses but as Mr President has t
said and I'm glad he did and he made two
I think very important
points Gaza is not the only location of
concern in this deeply troubling
conflict since the start of the latest
hostilities situation in the West Bank
has also been deteriorating as TR said
and he should know last week was the
deadliest week for Palestinians in the
West Bank since the United Nations
started recording fatalities in
2005 while settler violence incidents
also have gone up from an average of
three incidents day to
eight
suffering knows no
borders widespread closures throughout
the West Bank are impacting the ability
of communities to access essential
services is and there is a real risk of
the situation expiring out of control
but the people of Israel Palestine the
region need what we all need what this
council's mandate is in existence to
secure is the sanity and humanitarian to
Prevail drawing on the provisions of
international humanitarian law for
Urgent efforts this was toward the
second point to arrest any further
descent in this brutal
Calamity Lana said it very eloquently
the worry that I suppose many of us have
where will this lead us where will this
lead us when the fighting has taken
place of course we implore the parties
to respect International humanitarian
law and by the way I want to be very
clear the humanitarian ceasefire would
go a long way to easing the Epic human
suffering finally Mr President I know
I've gone on too long I want to conclude
by expressing my deepest
admiration gratitude and commedy for the
extraordinary people who are delivering
life saving and humanitarian Services
well you've been listening there to the
UN a chief Martin Griffith briefing the
UN Security Council via video link
emphasizing the urgency of addressing
the humanitarian situation in Gaza let's
bring in Tark bonei he's the president
of al-shabaka an independent Palestinian
Think Tank and also the author of the
book Hamas contained he joins me now
live from New York tar Israel says that
its bombardment of Gaza is in
retaliation for hamas's attacks that
it's striking Hamas military targets
what do you make of what they've hit so
far well what we've seen is really a
continuation of Israeli uh tactics that
it's used in past military assaults on
the Gaza Strip which includes targeting
civilian areas and targeting ambulances
as well as Health Care Centers I think
it's very clear for everyone who's
looking at this that this isn't about
retaliation against Hamas what's in
place now is a much broader program
that's focused on ethnic cleansing we
saw in the first few days of the assault
that began about 5 days ago now there
was discussion about a security Corridor
or humanitarian Corridor that would
allow Palestinians to get out of the
Gaza STP into Egypt Palestinians
understand what that Corridor means this
isn't about humanitarianism this is
about ethnic cleansing and the
depopulation of the Gaza Strip and so
rightly a lot of Palestinians are
worried about Mass displacement which
has already affected more than a million
Palestinians in the Gaza Strip and what
we're witnessing is T hearing those
concerns from the Egyptian and Jordanian
governments as well I just want to pick
up on a word you use there cleansing
Israel has has said that it won't stop
until Hamas is completely removed and
Hamas is not only an armed group right
it's also regarded by many as a social
movement of sorts can you remove Hamas
from the Gaza
Strip well I think that's exactly the
question that we need to be asking I
think the idea that Hamas can be
destroyed or removed is nonsensical not
only is the movement as you say not only
a military organization but also a
movement that provides Social Services
Healthcare education uh charitable work
to Palestinians in Gaza and Beyond Gaza
but it's also an ideology hamas's
ideology is one that's committed to
resistance to liberate Palestine so this
idea that Israel is an aparted regime
and employs Colonial violence against
Palestinians and that it can continue to
do that with impunity is one that
hamas's political project and military
military project opposes and if Hamas in
in this imaginary world where Hamas is
decimated and destroyed that ideology of
Palestinian liberation of pushing back
against Israeli aparted will continue in
a different guise so this idea that
they're trying to uh kill Hamas is
really a way of saying we don't want to
deal with Palestinians we want to
decimate the Palestinian political
project and forgo any need to deal with
the Palestinian political demands which
are rights under inali are inali rights
under international law including the
right of return well Israel has not been
drawing a distinction between the
Palestinian resident of Gaza and Hamas
how much popular support does Hamas have
now tar and and what is its relationship
like with the Palestinian leadership at
this
stage well I think it's important to
remember that Hamas was a party that was
politic democratically elected in 2006
so there is obviously a lot of support
for hamas's political project among
Palestinians some of that support comes
from a place of ideology so Palestinians
identify with hamas's ideological
platform but Hamas also gets a lot of
support from Palestinians for its
military project uh as a military power
Hamas is able to deter Israeli
aggression and be the Frontline of
defense for Palestinians who are
otherwise defens defenseless when
they're facing Colonial violence and so
Hamas in this way is seen to be an
important deterrent uh for for
Palestinians and one that can can
protect Palestinian civilians now
obviously this is the Palestinian
Liberation project is much bigger than
Hamas Hamas doesn't speak on behalf of
of all Palestinians but it is certainly
a credible power now the Palestinian
Authority as one of your correspondents
was saying before has its own baggage in
the in the West Bank it's engaged in
security coordination tactics and at the
time of War when Palestinians are being
bombarded ceaselessly in the Gaza Strip
it's coming out to prevent protests in
the West Bank in support of Palestinians
so that is something that is seen as
illegitimate and many Palestinians
opposed and we've seen a lot of of anger
and a lot of heighten tensions as a
result of that TK bonei there the
president of Al shaca an independent
Palestinian think tank and the author of
the book Hamas contained thank you so
much for joining us and sharing your
thoughts on Al jaer
T thank you